README.markdown, before:

# sloc


Create stats of your source code:

- lines of code
- lines with comments
- lines with block comments
- lines with single-line comments
- lines mixed up with source and comments
- empty lines
- physical lines

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/flosse/sloc.png)](http://travis-ci.org/flosse/sloc)
[![Dependency Status](https://gemnasium.com/flosse/sloc.png)](https://gemnasium.com/flosse/sloc)
[![NPM version](https://badge.fury.io/js/sloc.png)](http://badge.fury.io/js/sloc)

## Supported outputs

sloc provides a set of output formatters:

- CSV
- JSON
- Commandline table

## Install

To use sloc as an application install it globally:

```
sudo npm install -g sloc
```

If you're going to use it as a Node.js module within your project:

```
npm install --save sloc
```

### Browser

You can also use sloc within your browser application.

Link `sloc.js` in your HTML file:

```html
<script src="lib/sloc.js"></script>
```

sloc is also available via [bower](http://twitter.github.com/bower/):

```
bower install sloc
```

## Usage

### CLI

```
sloc [option] <file>|<directory>
```

Options:

```
-h, --help                  output usage information
-V, --version               output the version number
-e, --exclude <regex>       regular expression to exclude files and folders
-f, --format <format>       format output: json, csv, cli-table
    --format-option [value] add formatter option
-k, --keys <keys>           report only numbers of the given keys
-d, --details               report stats of each analzed file
-a, --alias <custom ext>=<standard ext> alias custom ext to act like standard ext (eg. php5=php,less=css)
```

e.g.:

```
$ sloc src/

---------- Result ------------

            Physical :  1202
              Source :  751
             Comment :  322
 Single-line comment :  299
       Block comment :  23
               Mixed :  116
               Empty :  245

Number of files read :  10

------------------------------
```

or

```
$ sloc --details \
       --format cli-table \
       --keys total,source,comment \
       --exclude i18n*.\.coffee \
       --format-option no-head src/

┌─────────────────────────────────┬──────────┬────────┬─────────┐
│ src/cli.coffee                  │ 98       │ 74     │ 7       │
├─────────────────────────────────┼──────────┼────────┼─────────┤
│ src/helpers.coffee              │ 26       │ 20     │ 0       │
├─────────────────────────────────┼──────────┼────────┼─────────┤
│ src/sloc.coffee                 │ 196      │ 142    │ 20      │
├─────────────────────────────────┼──────────┼────────┼─────────┤
│ src/formatters/simple.coffee    │ 44       │ 28     │ 7       │
├─────────────────────────────────┼──────────┼────────┼─────────┤
│ src/formatters/csv.coffee       │ 25       │ 14     │ 5       │
├─────────────────────────────────┼──────────┼────────┼─────────┤
│ src/formatters/cli-table.coffee │ 22       │ 13     │ 0       │
└─────────────────────────────────┴──────────┴────────┴─────────┘
```

### Node.js

Or use it in your own node module

```javascript
var fs    = require('fs');
var sloc  = require('sloc');

fs.readFile("mySourceFile.coffee", "utf8", function(err, code){

  if(err){ console.error(err); }
  else{
    var stats = sloc(code,"coffee");
    for(i in sloc.keys){
      var k = sloc.keys[i];
      console.log(k + " : " + stats[k]);
    }
  }
});
```

### Browser

```javascript
var sourceCode = "foo();\n /* bar */\n baz();";

var stats = window.sloc(sourceCode,"javascript");
```

### Contribute an new formatter

1. Fork this repo

2. add the new formatter into `src/formatters/` that exports a
   method with three arguments:
   1. results (object)
   2. global options (object)
   3. formatter specific options (array)

3. add the formatter in `src/cli.coffee`

4. open a pull request

### Grunt

If you'd like to use sloc within your grunt process you can use
[grunt-sloc](https://github.com/rhiokim/grunt-sloc).

Install it:

    npm install grunt-sloc --save-dev

and use it:

    grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-sloc');

For more details navigate to the
[project site](https://github.com/rhiokim/grunt-sloc).

### Gulp

sloc is also available for gulp.

Install [gulp-sloc](https://github.com/oddjobsman/gulp-sloc):

    npm install --save-dev gulp-sloc

and use it:

```javascript
var sloc = require('gulp-sloc');

gulp.task('sloc', function(){
  gulp.src(['scripts/*.js']).pipe(sloc());
});
```

### [Atom](https://atom.io/)

![screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sgade/atom-sloc/master/assets/screen.png)

You can use [atom-sloc](https://github.com/sgade/atom-sloc) to display stats
of the current file in the statusbar.

And there is another great atom package called
[line-count](https://github.com/mark-hahn/line-count) that gives you a more
detailed report showing line counts broken down by file, directory, and file
type for all files in the project.

## Supported languages

- CoffeeScript
- C / C++
- C#
- Clojure / ClojureScript
- CSS / SCSS / LESS / Stylus
- Erlang
- Go
- Groovy
- HTML
- Handlebars
- Haskell
- Haxe
- Hilbert
- hy
- Java
- JavaScript
- Julia
- Lua
- LiveScript
- Nix
- Monkey
- Mustache
- Perl 5
- Python
- PHP
- R
- Racket
- Ruby
- Rust
- Scala
- SVG
- Swift
- Typescript
- Visual Basic
- Yaml
- XML

## Run tests

    npm test

## Changelog

see `CHANGELOG.md`

## License

sloc is licensed under the MIT license

Commit message:

added description to bower package 'sloc-bower'

README.markdown, after:

# sloc


Create stats of your source code:

- lines of code
- lines with comments
- lines with block comments
- lines with single-line comments
- lines mixed up with source and comments
- empty lines
- physical lines

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/flosse/sloc.png)](http://travis-ci.org/flosse/sloc)
[![Dependency Status](https://gemnasium.com/flosse/sloc.png)](https://gemnasium.com/flosse/sloc)
[![NPM version](https://badge.fury.io/js/sloc.png)](http://badge.fury.io/js/sloc)

## Supported outputs

sloc provides a set of output formatters:

- CSV
- JSON
- Commandline table

## Install

To use sloc as an application install it globally:

```
sudo npm install -g sloc
```

If you're going to use it as a Node.js module within your project:

```
npm install --save sloc
```

### Browser

You can also use sloc within your browser application.

Link `sloc.js` in your HTML file:

```html
<script src="lib/sloc.js"></script>
```

sloc is also available via [bower](http://twitter.github.com/bower/):

```
bower install sloc
```

**Note**:
You need to compile the coffee-script files yourself.
If you want to use a precompiled bower package, you can run

```
bower install sloc-bower
```

## Usage

### CLI

```
sloc [option] <file>|<directory>
```

Options:

```
-h, --help                  output usage information
-V, --version               output the version number
-e, --exclude <regex>       regular expression to exclude files and folders
-f, --format <format>       format output: json, csv, cli-table
    --format-option [value] add formatter option
-k, --keys <keys>           report only numbers of the given keys
-d, --details               report stats of each analzed file
-a, --alias <custom ext>=<standard ext> alias custom ext to act like standard ext (eg. php5=php,less=css)
```

e.g.:

```
$ sloc src/

---------- Result ------------

            Physical :  1202
              Source :  751
             Comment :  322
 Single-line comment :  299
       Block comment :  23
               Mixed :  116
               Empty :  245

Number of files read :  10

------------------------------
```

or

```
$ sloc --details \
       --format cli-table \
       --keys total,source,comment \
       --exclude i18n*.\.coffee \
       --format-option no-head src/

┌─────────────────────────────────┬──────────┬────────┬─────────┐
│ src/cli.coffee                  │ 98       │ 74     │ 7       │
├─────────────────────────────────┼──────────┼────────┼─────────┤
│ src/helpers.coffee              │ 26       │ 20     │ 0       │
├─────────────────────────────────┼──────────┼────────┼─────────┤
│ src/sloc.coffee                 │ 196      │ 142    │ 20      │
├─────────────────────────────────┼──────────┼────────┼─────────┤
│ src/formatters/simple.coffee    │ 44       │ 28     │ 7       │
├─────────────────────────────────┼──────────┼────────┼─────────┤
│ src/formatters/csv.coffee       │ 25       │ 14     │ 5       │
├─────────────────────────────────┼──────────┼────────┼─────────┤
│ src/formatters/cli-table.coffee │ 22       │ 13     │ 0       │
└─────────────────────────────────┴──────────┴────────┴─────────┘
```

### Node.js

Or use it in your own node module

```javascript
var fs    = require('fs');
var sloc  = require('sloc');

fs.readFile("mySourceFile.coffee", "utf8", function(err, code){

  if(err){ console.error(err); }
  else{
    var stats = sloc(code,"coffee");
    for(i in sloc.keys){
      var k = sloc.keys[i];
      console.log(k + " : " + stats[k]);
    }
  }
});
```

### Browser

```javascript
var sourceCode = "foo();\n /* bar */\n baz();";

var stats = window.sloc(sourceCode,"javascript");
```

### Contribute an new formatter

1. Fork this repo

2. add the new formatter into `src/formatters/` that exports a
   method with three arguments:
   1. results (object)
   2. global options (object)
   3. formatter specific options (array)

3. add the formatter in `src/cli.coffee`

4. open a pull request

### Grunt

If you'd like to use sloc within your grunt process you can use
[grunt-sloc](https://github.com/rhiokim/grunt-sloc).

Install it:

    npm install grunt-sloc --save-dev

and use it:

    grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-sloc');

For more details navigate to the
[project site](https://github.com/rhiokim/grunt-sloc).

### Gulp

sloc is also available for gulp.

Install [gulp-sloc](https://github.com/oddjobsman/gulp-sloc):

    npm install --save-dev gulp-sloc

and use it:

```javascript
var sloc = require('gulp-sloc');

gulp.task('sloc', function(){
  gulp.src(['scripts/*.js']).pipe(sloc());
});
```

### [Atom](https://atom.io/)

![screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sgade/atom-sloc/master/assets/screen.png)

You can use [atom-sloc](https://github.com/sgade/atom-sloc) to display stats
of the current file in the statusbar.

And there is another great atom package called
[line-count](https://github.com/mark-hahn/line-count) that gives you a more
detailed report showing line counts broken down by file, directory, and file
type for all files in the project.

## Supported languages

- CoffeeScript
- C / C++
- C#
- Clojure / ClojureScript
- CSS / SCSS / LESS / Stylus
- Erlang
- Go
- Groovy
- HTML
- Handlebars
- Haskell
- Haxe
- Hilbert
- hy
- Java
- JavaScript
- Julia
- Lua
- LiveScript
- Nix
- Monkey
- Mustache
- Perl 5
- Python
- PHP
- R
- Racket
- Ruby
- Rust
- Scala
- SVG
- Swift
- Typescript
- Visual Basic
- Yaml
- XML

## Run tests

    npm test

## Changelog

see `CHANGELOG.md`

## License

sloc is licensed under the MIT license
